The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Old Oak Tree, by Miss Moncrieff

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Old Oak Tree

Author: Miss Moncrieff

Release Date: July 17, 2020 [EBook #62682]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE OLD OAK TREE ***




Produced by Charlene Taylor, Harry Lamé and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team
at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Internet Archive)







  Transcriber’s Notes

  Text printed in italics has been transcribed _between underscores_,
  bold face text =between equal signs=. Small capitals have been changed
  to ALL CAPITALS. ^A represents a superscript A.

  More Transcriber’s Notes may be found at the end of this text.




[Illustration: DEAN’S SIXPENNY NEW CHROMO PICTURE & TALE BOOKS.

the OLD OAK TREE

by

MISS MONCRIEFF

Emrik & Binger, Lith. 15 Holborn Viaduct.

DEAN & SON. 160^A FLEET STREET, LONDON E. C.

OR UNTEARABLE CLOTH--ONE SHILLING.]

[Illustration: Emrik & Binger, Lith. 15 Holborn Viaduct.]

[Illustration: THE OLD OAK TREE]

Once upon a time there was an OLD OAK TREE in a gentleman’s park. It
grew beside a river, and stretched out its long strong arms, covered
with thick green ivy, as if welcoming everybody to its shelter.

A number of animals took advantage of its invitations:

First, at the foot of it, lived Bunny the Rabbit, with Mrs. Bunny, his
wife, and a fine family of sixteen children. There they ran in and out,
cocking up their little white tails, and popping into their hole as
quick as lightning the moment they saw anybody coming.

Jerry, the Squirrel, who lived high up in the tree, used to look down
and pity Mr. Bunny very much; for he was so poor, had such a large
family, and not a single nut laid by for the winter! But Bunny knew
better; and when he, Mrs. Bunny, and the little gray Bunnies were
huddled together so warm on a winter’s night, he used to listen to the
wind, and say, “Poor Jerry! how cold it must be up there!” But Jerry
could wrap his tail round his neck like a boa, and fall sound asleep on
the tree-top.

[Illustration]

Below Jerry’s house, where the ivy was thickest, lived Cozie Cowl, the
Owl, with his wise nose, and his great yellow staring eyes. He kept a
singing-school at night, and when all the other birds were sleeping you
might hear Cozie Cowl and the Misses Cozie Cowl all singing, “Tu-whit!
Tu-who-o!”

Then, among the ivy was a Robin Redbreast, a pair of Blackbirds, and two
lovely Tomtits; there was also a noisy family of Jackdaws, Mr. and Mrs.
Ray by name, in a hole in the trunk, which they called “Heart of Oak
Hall;” and, highest of all, lived a quiet old fisherman, called
Longlegs, the Heron.

[Illustration]

Most peaceably they all lived together, always polite and
neighbourly. They sang their best songs; and the Squire used to look up
and say,--“Ah! there is no tree so full of music as the OLD OAK.”

[Illustration]

One day a pair of new-comers came to the Old Oak Tree, and began to
settle themselves and build their nest. Mr. and Mrs. Jay (for that was
their name) were most beautiful birds, with crests on their heads and
pretty blue feathers on their wings; but their voices were loud and
sharp, and they seemed to be always scolding.

They were full of curiosity about their neighbours, and peeped into
everybody’s house. “Why do you live down there, Mr. Bunny?” said Mrs.
Jay; “I’m sure your house must be damp, and unhealthy for the children.”

Then they attacked Cozie Cowl:--“If you would only keep decent hours,
and come out the proper time of day, Mr. Cozie Cowl, it would do you a
world of good.” And Cozie, with all his wisdom, was so silly as to
believe them, and came tumbling out of his hole in the ivy, looking so
foolish that the mischievous Jays laughed at him, and pecked at him till
he crept into his corner again.

“As for you, Jerry,” said Mrs. Jay, “I don’t believe you are a bit
comfortable up there. Why don’t you marry Miss Hedgehog, and set up
house decently?”

[Illustration]

And so these two naughty birds made everybody uncomfortable, and taught
those who had been contented before to despise their own houses and
lonely life; till at last, instead of sweet songs, there was nothing but
complaints and noises; and, loudest of all, the sharp harsh cries of Mr.
and Mrs. Jay were heard from the tree.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

One day, the Squire and his lady, with their children, came past: “What
disagreeable noise is that? Oh, I see now, it is the Jays in that
oak--what pretty birds!” “Very pretty, my dear,” said her husband, “but
insufferably noisy: we must get rid of them.” And before night a gun
went _bang!_ and again _bang!_ and down went Mr. Jay and Mrs. Jay, with
all their fine feathers. And thus was peace restored to the OLD OAK.

About this time, Jerry, who was a great favourite with everybody, took
to himself a nice little wife; and, in honour of the event, Mr. and Mrs.
Cozie Cowl determined to give a grand tea party. It was difficult to fix
upon a good hour, because, if it was during the daylight, Cozie Cowl
would be sure to fall asleep, and if it was at night, no one else would
be awake. So Mrs. Cozie, like a wise bird as she was, fixed on the
twilight hour, when the moon would rise soon and serve them for a lamp.

[Illustration]

What a nice feast she prepared for them! The best of nuts and acorns for
Jerry and his wee wife, beautiful dandelions for the Bunny family,
pretty speckled trout for Longlegs the Heron, grubs and grains for the
Jackdaws, and lovely fat worms for the Blackbird and Robin Redbreast;
while for Cozie himself she got the very thing in the world he liked
best--a particularly nasty dead mouse! Altogether there never was such a
merry party in the OLD OAK TREE.

They sat a long time talking of many things, and at last they began to
talk about their great neighbours in the big house hard by. “The
Squire’s gardener is the best of men,” said Robin Redbreast; “he has
been digging up worms for me since six o’clock this morning!” “But what
do you think of the lady herself?” said Bunny; “I heard her order him to
fill the flower-beds with carnations, my own favourite food!” and the
sixteen little Bunnies cocked up their long ears at the thought. “I
know,” said the Blackbird, “the Squire’s cherries are the best in the
country. I am so much obliged to him.” “Yes,” said the Jackdaw, “and the
people who have put up the telegraph wires for us to sit upon!”

[Illustration]

“My friends,” said Cozie, “you know nothing about it. I fly about by
night, and know more than you do. I heard the gardener ordered to shoot
the Blackbirds who ate the cherries; to set traps for the rabbits; and I
heard my lady say she would like to have you, Jerry, my boy, running
round the treadmill in her Squirrel-cage! But as for the telegraph
wires, _they_ must have been put up for us to sit upon!” At this point
Mrs. Cozie volunteered a song; on which all the birds said “Good-night”
in a desperate hurry.

[Illustration: Emrik & Binger, Lith. 15 Holborn Viaduct.]

Now, the Jackdaws were not pleasant birds to have for neighbours. They
were always grubbing and pecking in Heart of Oak Hall, till they made
the hole too large to be good for the tree. Then the river that flowed
beside it, worked away among its roots and loosened it; so one day, the
Squire, as he came past, said, “That tree must be cut down.”

[Illustration]

Bunny, with his long ears, heard this, and ran directly to tell Jerry,
who agreed with him that it was a great risk to remain; so did Blackbird
and Robin. The Water Rat recommended a nice clean lodging to the
Bunnies. Jerry and his wife betook themselves to the horse-chestnut
tree; whilst Cozie Cowl and all the little Cozies just waited till it
was dark enough for them to see, and then they too flew away to another
shelter.

But the Jackdaws would not be warned. “We have lived here always,” said
they, “and we are not going away now. This tree has stood for hundreds
of years, and it is likely to stand for a hundred more. You are always
so easily frightened, poor Bunny. Such a tree was never cut down in this
park, and never will be!”

But the Squire had given his orders, and the next morning the woodmen
set to work to fell the Old Oak. The Jackdaws then began to think there
might be some truth in Jerry’s report; but when the woodmen went away to
breakfast, and all was still again, they believed their own opinion once
more, and went out as usual to find a dinner for their young family.
Grubs were scarce that day, and it was late before they returned home,
as they thought; but they had no home now. The ground was littered with
splinters and broken branches. The Old Oak Tree was lying prostrate on
the grass, and a few black feathers were floating down the river.

[Illustration]




  POND’S EXTRACT

  _Cures by External Application_

  Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Hemorrhoids, Diarrhœa, Colic,
  and all Inflammatory Diseases.

  It controls all Bleedings Internal or External. It relieves all Aches
  and Pains.

  POND’S EXTRACT

  is invaluable for application to Cuts, Burns, Bruises, and Sprains,
  stopping pain and bleeding, reducing swelling and inflammation, and
  hastening healing. Once tried it will ever after be kept in the home.

  RECOMMENDED BY

  CHARLES LOWDER, M.D., Lansdown House, Ryde, Isle of Wight.

  G. F. MABERLY, M.R.C.S.

  DR. HERRING.

  [Illustration: RECOMMENDED BY PHYSICIANS]

  [Illustration: LANDSCAPE TRADE MARK.]

  [Illustration: SURGEONS AND DENTISTS]

  POND’S EXTRACT

  is applied in the same manner as Arnica, to which it is immensely
  superior. POND’S EXTRACT is harmless taken internally even by a child,
  while Arnica is an active poison and dangerous to keep in a family.

  RECOMMENDED BY

  DR. BERNARD, F.R.C.P.

  ARTHUR GUINESS, M.D., F.R.C.S.

  GEORGE CHEVERTON, F.C.S.

  &c., &c., &c.

  Sold by all Chemists at 13¹⁄₂d., 2s. 3d., 4s. 6d., and 8s. 6d. per
  Bottle.

  _See that you get the genuine, sold only in our Bottles with Landscape
  Trade Mark on outside Buff Wrapper._

  POND’S EXTRACT COMPANY OF LONDON, LIMITED,

  482, OXFORD STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *

  _ORDER OF ANY GROCER OR OILMAN._

  Best of all Sauces for STEAKS.

  Best of all Sauces for CHOPS.

  Best of all Sauces for FISH.

  [Illustration: _ORDER OF ANY GROCER OR OILMAN._

  “Chef” Sauce

  Creamy.

  _ORDER OF ANY GROCER OR OILMAN._]

  Best of all Sauces for SOUPS.

  Best of all Sauces for STEWS.

  Wholesale of Dowling & Son, Leadenhall Market, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

  _Over One Million and a Half of Kopf’s Consolidated Soups_

  [Illustration: TRADEMARK]

  _have been sent to the troops in Afghanistan and South Africa._

  =KOPF’S EXTRACT OF MEAT COMPANY, LIMITED=,
  5, AGAR STREET, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, W.C.

  First Prize Gold Medal obtained at the Sydney International
  Exhibition, 1879, for “Extracts of Meat and nutritious preparations
  generally.”

  =KOPF’S EXTRACT OF BEEF.=--The purest form of beef
  tea; eight to ten per cent. more nutritious than any other.

  =KOPF’S ESSENCE OF BEEF.=--Especially adapted for invalids
  who can take no other form of nourishment.

  =KOPF’S BEEF LOZENGES.=--Invaluable to those who have
  to fast long.

  =KOPF’S CONSOLIDATED SOUPS=, comprising Erbswurst or
  Pea Soup, Mulligatawny, Green Pea, Scotch Broth, Hotch
  Potch, &c.

  In tins, Ox Tail, Gravy, Mock Turtle, &c.

  =KOPF’S PREPARED MARROW=, from Best Beef Marrow
  Bones.

  =KOPF’S COMPRESSED VEGETABLES=, Preserving the properties
  of Fresh Vegetables.

  =KOPF’S CONSOLIDATED TEA AND COFFEE.=--With and
  without Milk and Sugar.

  =KOPF’S EXTRACT OF MEAT COMPANY, LIMITED=,
  5, AGAR STREET, CHARING CROSS.

       *       *       *       *       *


  CALL A

  [Illustration: Spade]

  A

  [Illustration: Spade]

  AND

  BRANSON’S COFFEE EXTRACT

  THE PERFECTION OF COFFEE.

  18 Cups of Coffee for 6d; No Chicory.

  FOR DAILY HOUSEHOLD USE.
  FOR THE SEA-SIDE.
  FOR THE COUNTRY.
  FOR OLD and YOUNG.
  FOR THE TRAVELLER BY SEA AND LAND.

  _It is cheaper than the ordinary Coffee, because there is no waste,
  and a single cup or more is made with equal facility. It is guaranteed
  pure and free from chicory._

  REFRESHING. EXHILARATING.
  BETTER THAN TEA.
  A MORE VALUABLE STIMULANT
  THAN ALCOHOL.

  “The Coffee Extract is pure. It is a valuable nervine
  stimulant.”--_British Medical Journal._

  _Sold in Bottles at 6d., 1s. & 2s. each, by all Grocers and Chemists._

       *       *       *       *       *


  THE ORIGINAL

  H. W. BRAND,

  SOLE LONDON ADDRESS--

  21, SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.

  ASK FOR H. W. BRAND’S

  RESTORATIVES FOR INVALIDS.

  ESSENCE OF BEEF,

  Consists solely of the juice of the finest Beef extracted by a gentle
  heat without the addition of water. It thus contains all the most
  stimulating portions of the meat, and has long been used and
  recommended by the medical profession in cases of nervous debility,
  enfeebled digestion, and great exhaustion.

  _Similar Essences are prepared from Veal, Mutton, Chicken, Turtle,
  &c._

  CONCENTRATED BEEF TEA

  Contains all the soluble ingredients of the best Beef, and is highly
  recommended by the most eminent of the medical profession.

  SAVORY MEAT LOZENGES.

  INTERNATIONAL =A1= SAUCE.

  The best and most generally used Sauce, excellent with Chops and
  Steaks, Cold Meats, &c.

  ZISNOZAKOUSKA

  ARMY AND NAVY RELISH.

  Very appétissant for breakfast or tea on a muffin or toast, or as a
  sandwich between well-buttered milk biscuits.

  _CAUTION.--Our Restoratives for Invalids are distinguished by bearing
  a Straw instead of a Green-coloured Label._

       *       *       *       *       *


  THOMAS PERRIN,

  WHOLESALE

  WINE & BRANDY MERCHANT,

  23, ROOD LANE, LONDON, E.C.

  Celebrated as an Importer of Wines and Spirits of undoubted
  genuineness and high quality. STRONGLY RECOMMENDS the undermentioned
  Wines and Spirits for their good value and guaranteed purity:--

                                                                Per doz.
  Fine Bordeaux Claret some time in bottle                        15s.
  Very Fine Mellow Dry Sherry                                     28s.
  Very Fine, rather full Sherry                                   28s.
  Fine Old Ruby Port many years in bottle                         42s.
  Rare Old-Fashioned Madeira, 13 years old, very soft and fine
  flavor                                                          42s.
  Very Superior Marsala, very old in bottle, very soft, free
  from spirit                                                     24s.
  Very Fine Old Sauterne                                          24s.
  Very Fine Old Chablis                                           24s.
  Very Fine Medium Dry Champagne, vintage 1874                    48s.
  Splendid Old Cognac, invaluable for medicinal uses, specially
  bottled in Cognac, of great age                                 63s.
  Very Fine Old Scotch Whisky, thoroughly matured                 42s.
  Very Fine Old Irish Whisky, thoroughly matured                  42s.

  ALL BOTTLES INCLUDED.

  _In addition to the above Specially Quoted Wines and Spirits adapted
  for Family Use, the Stock consists of Curious Old Sherries, Rare Old
  Vintage Ports of Celebrated Vintages, and other Wines and Spirits,
  quotations of which shall be forwarded on application._

       *       *       *       *       *


  OLDRIDGE’S BALM OF COLUMBIA

  PREVENTS BALDNESS

  AND THE HAIR TURNING GREY.

  When used for Children forms the Basis of a =MAGNIFICENT HEAD OF
  HAIR.=

  =STRENGTHENS WEAK HAIR.=

  Causes Eyebrows, Whiskers, and Mustachios to grow freely.

  SOLD EVERYWHERE =3s. 6d., 6s., and 11s.=

  WHOLESALE AND RETAIL FROM 22, WELLINGTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

  _ESTABLISHED SIXTY YEARS._

       *       *       *       *       *


  SEVEN PRIZE MEDALS AWARDED.

  GOODALL’S HOUSEHOLD SPECIALITIES.

  =GOODALL’S YORKSHIRE RELISH=
  THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
  “Makes the plainest viands palatable.”
  _Bottles, 6d., 1s. and 2s. each._

  =GOODALL’S BAKING POWDER=
  THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
  “Pastry without Butter, beautiful Light Bread without Yeast.”
  _1d. Packets; 6d., 1s., 2s. and 5s. Tins._

  =GOODALL’S QUININE WINE=
  THE BEST TONIC YET INTRODUCED
  “For Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, and restoring Invalids to Vigour.”
  _Bottles, 1s., 1s. 1¹⁄₂d., 2s. and 2s. 3d. each._

  =GOODALL’S CUSTARD POWDER=
  MAKES DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, AND
  AT HALF PRICE.
  _In Boxes, 6d. and 1s. each._

  =GOODALL’S GINGER BEER POWDER=
  MAKES THREE GALLONS OF THE BEST GINGER
  BEER IN THE WORLD FOR 3d.
  _In Packets, 3d. and 6d. each._

  =GOODALL’S MUSHROOM KETCHUP=
  RECOMMENDED TO ALL TRUE LOVERS OF
  THE PURE MUSHROOM.
  _In Bottles at 6d., 1s., and 2s. each._

  =GOODALL’S EGG POWDER=
  ONE PENNY PACKET WILL GO AS FAR AS FOUR EGGS.
  “Its action resembles that of the Egg in every particular.”
  _In 1d. Packets; 6d. and 1s. Tins._

  =GOODALL’S BLANCMANGE POWDER=
  MOST DELICIOUS BLANCMANGES IN A FEW
  MINUTES.
  _In Boxes, 6d. and 1s. each._

  =GOODALL’S BRUNSWICK BLACK=
  FOR PAINTING STOVES, GRATES, IRON, TIN, &c.
  _In 6d. and 1s. Bottles._

  Sold by Grocers, Chemists, Patent Medicine Dealers, Oilmen, &c.
  _Proprietors_: =GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS.=

       *       *       *       *       *


  BRAGG’S

  VEGETABLE CHARCOAL,

  OR

  _PURE CARBON BISCUITS_.

  A NUTRITIOUS, PLEASANT, AND HEALTHFUL DIET,

  Which has produced great benefit and positive relief to thousands of
  sufferers from Indigestion, Bile, Acidity, Foul Breath, Dyspepsia,
  Heartburn, Worms, &c. at this season of the year; is now strongly
  recommended as a relief, if not a preventative, of Diarrhœa and other
  Choleraic Disorders. There is a medical testimony to its beneficial
  effects in those complaints.

  Worms in Children are speedily eradicated, from the fact that the
  Charcoal destroys the food of the Worms.

  _Sold in Tins, 1s., 2s., 4s., and 8s. each, by all Chemists, and by
  the Manufacturer_,

  J. L. BRAGG,
  14 (late 2), Wigmore Street, Cavendish Square.

       *       *       *       *       *


  MISS EMILY FAITHFUL,

  In the _Victoria Magazine_ of December, 1879,

  SAYS:--

  “_It is with the utmost confidence that we recommend this excellent
  preparation_,

  [CROSBY’S VITALIZED PHOSPHATES.]

  _Those engaged in brain work would be saved from the fatal resort to
  chloral and other destructive stimulants if they would have recourse
  to a remedy so simple and efficacious._”

  It is a preparation prepared according to DR. PERCY’S Formula, and is
  essentially a brain and nerve restorer, much in use among the upper
  classes of society, and will be found of inestimable value in the
  deficient mental and bodily growth of =CHILDREN=, and in the lassitude
  and sleeplessness of debilitated =WOMEN=, and in the overtaxed
  secretion of Nursing Mothers.

  Physicians alone have prescribed 157,780 bottles as pleasant to take
  and =FREE FROM ALL DANGER=.

  _Sold by every Chemist, price 3/9 per Bottle (containing 44 adult
  doses) or POST FREE from_ F. CROSBY, 137A, Strand, London, _upon
  receipt of Stamps or P. O. O._


  Send for a descriptive pamphlet, containing high-class testimonials,
  which will be sent to you post free.

       *       *       *       *       *


  DEAN’S Sixpenny new Chromo

  TOY TALE BOOKS.

  [Illustration]

  QUARTO SIZE.

  1--=THE BRIGHT SHILLING=, by E. N. MARKS.

  2--=PHILLIP and the ROBIN=, by ROBERT EDGAR.

  3--=ODD RHYMES=, by E. O. A.

  4--=THE OLD OAK TREE=, by Miss MONCRIEFF.

  5--=THE RIDE TO BRENTWOOD=, by T. BURROUGHS.

  _The above are uniform with_ THIS _Book, viz.--Five pages of Plates in
  chromo colours and Tales to match. Illustrated with Etchings._

  DEAN’S ‘PINAFORE’

  Toy Books,

  SIXPENCE EACH. Printed in Chromo Litho.

  1--=Pinafore Rhymes--Indoor Scenes=, by E. M. C. VAUGHAN.

  2--=Pinafore Rhymes--Outdoor Scenes=, by E. M. C. VAUGHAN.

  3--=Oh! Come to the Window!= By E. O. A.

  4--=Good Morning and Good Night.= By E. O. A.

  5--=Little May’s Picture Book.= By Miss CRAWFORD.

  [Illustration: _DEAN’S_

  Living Picture Nursery Rhymes

  _Price 1/6 strongly bound._

  New Living Pictures in Oil Colours.]

  DEAN’S ONE SHILLING

  Embossed or Raised Relief

  _PICTURE TOY BOOKS_.

  [Illustration]

  Each with six beautiful Plates in chromo-lithography, four of which,
  with Cover, are in Raised Relief; there is also a well-told tale, with
  about twenty illustrations interspersed with the Text.

  1--=Lady Tabitha’s Morning Concert.= By E. O. A.

  2--=Simple Verses on our Dumb Friends.= By J. E. C. F.

  3--=The Chickens’ Garden Party.= By E. O. A.

  4--=The Little Birds who went out to see the World.= By E. M. C.
  VAUGHAN.

  5--=The Kitten’s Misfortunes.= By E. O. A.

  6--=Violet’s Birthday Fancy Ball.= By E. O. A.

  DEAN’S NOVEL

  Changing Panoramic Pantomime

  _Toy Books_.

  One Shilling Each.

  QUARTO SIZE,

  1--Aladdin and Lamp.

  2--Sleeping Beauty.

  3--Cinderella.

  4--Puss in Boots.

  5--Blue Beard.

  6--Whittington.

  7--Ali Baba.

  8--Beauty & Beast.

  Nos. one to eight have Pantomime Transformation Scenes.

  OBLONG SIZE,

  1--Johnny Gilpin.

  2--Daddy’s gone a-hunting.

  3--Alas! Cock Robin.

  4--Queen of Hearts.

  [Illustration]


  LONDON: DEAN & SON, PUBLISHERS, 160a, FLEET STREET, E.C.




  Transcriber’s Notes


  Some minor obvious errors and inconsistencies have been corrected
  silently.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Old Oak Tree, by Miss Moncrieff

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE OLD OAK TREE ***

***** This file should be named 62682-0.txt or 62682-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/6/8/62682/

Produced by Charlene Taylor, Harry Lamé and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team
at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
